We're going to start by creating a single layer neural network,
like this one, but with five inputs.
To do this, we're going to create tensors with
random values to represent our input features,
our weights and our bias.
We start by setting the seed for
a random number generator so that things are reproducible.
Then we create our input features which represent the input to our network.
We're going to use the function tf.random.normal to create tensors with
random values drawn from
a normal distribution with a mean of zero and a standard deviation of one.
We can specify the shape of the tensor we want to create by using a tuple,
where the first number represents the number of
rows and the second number represents the number of columns.
So in this case,
we want our input features to be a two-dimensional tensor with one row and five columns.
You can think of this tensor as a row vector that has five elements.
For the weights, we're also going to create
a two-dimensional tensor with one row and five columns.
We then create our single bias value by creating
a tensor that has just one row and one column.
Finally, we print our features, our weights,
and our bias, and we can see the output right here.
Now that we have created the input features, the weights,
and the bias of our network,
we need to specify the activation function we're going to use.
In this particular example,
we're going to use the sigmoid activation function as we see here,
and I'm going to leave it up to you to calculate the output
of this single layer neural network, in this exercise.
Remember, what you need to do is to
multiply the input features by the weights, sum them up,
and then add the bias term,
then you pass the result through
the activation function to get the output of our network, y.
Now it's a good time to pause the video and try out
this exercise for yourself before I show you the solution.
This is my solution to this exercise.
Here I'm using tf.multiply to multiply our features with our weights.
Then I'm using tf.reduce sum to sum these values up.
Then I add the bias term and then I take all that and
pass it to the sigmoid activation function to get the output of our network.
Finally, I print the output,
and this is the value that we get.
In this solution, we're performing the element-wise multiplication,
and taking the sum in two separate operations.
We can do the multiplication and the sum in
a single operation if we use matrix multiplication.
In general, we always want to use matrix multiplication
because it's more efficient and can be accelerated using GPUs.
Here we want to do a matrix multiplication between the features and the weights.
We can do this in TensorFlow by using the tf.matmul function.
However, if we try to do it with the features and weights as they are,
we'll get an error as we see here.
What's happening here is that our tensors aren't in
the correct shapes to perform the matrix multiplication.
Remember that for matrix multiplications,
the number of columns in the first tensor
must equal the number of rows in the second tensor.
However, here both our features and weights tensors have the same shape,
which is one row and five columns.
This means that we need to change the shape of
the weights' tensor to get the matrix multiplication to work.
However, we can avoid changing the shape of the weights' tensor before we do
the matrix multiplication by using the transpose b
equals true argument of the tf.matmul function.
This argument will transpose
the weights' tensor without actually changing the shape of the tensor permanently.
So in our case,
the transpose b equals true argument,
will transpose the weights' tensor and change a shape from 1, 5 to 5,
1 just for the multiplication
without actually changing the shape of the tensor permanently.
As before, I'm going to leave it up to you to calculate the output of this network,
but now using matrix multiplication.
Now it's a good time to pause the video and try out
this exercise yourself before I show you the solution.
This is my solution to this exercise.
As you can see, I'm using tf.matmul to multiply the features and the weights,
and I'm using the argument transpose b equals true.